a professor of history of Princeton and
a fellow at the Hoover Institution here
at Stanford Stephen kotkin is one of the
nation's most compelling observers of
global affairs past and present dr.
kotkin is now working on the third and
final volume of his definitive biography
of Joseph Stalin Steven thanks for
making the time to join us welcome to
this special work from home edition of
uncommon knowledge great to be back
we'll come to the coronavirus in a
moment first China and what's gone wrong
here's a quotation the late Hoover
Fellow Harry Rowan writing in 1996 when
will trying to become a democracy the
answer is around the Year 2015 this
prediction is based on China's
impressive economic growth which in turn
fits the way freedom has grown elsewhere
in Asia
close quote China was supposed to follow
the pattern of South Korea and Taiwan
you start with economic freedoms you
achieve economic growth the population
too begins to demand political freedoms
and you end up with democracy that has
not happened
how come first of all god bless Henry
Rowan and unfortunately he did not
predict the future properly what had
been better had Henry been right I'll
give you two quick answers to your
opening question Peter the first and
important point is that it's nonsense
that authoritarian regimes have some
type of unwritten social contract with
their population so that the population
agrees to give up their freedom and the
regime promises to raise standards of
living the reason that's nonsense is
because if the regime fails to uphold
its side of the bargain
for example if it fails to continue to
generate economic growth the regime
doesn't say oh we
uphold the contract and so we're leaving
power voluntarily great course not
the regime instead says we're gonna use
more repression and we're gonna ramp up
the nationalist xenophobia or whatever
tools they have in the toolkit so it's
very important to understand that there
is no unwritten social contract or
bargain with authoritarian regime they
do not leave voluntarily ever for the
most fun rare exceptions the second
important point in answer to your
question is that the China is ruled by a
communist party we forgot about this we
tended to downplay the idea that it was
still ruled by a communist party but
we've seen how important that dimension
of the question is a communism in rule
is an all-or-nothing proposition you
can't be half communist in other words
you're either a monopoly regime or you
begin to disintegrate either you're a
sole party and you don't Brook any
possible rival competition in the
political sphere or people want
different political parties and they
don't need your monopoly anymore this is
the prime lesson of the history of
communism that the party rule is an
all-or-nothing monopoly or dissolution
proposition in fact the Chinese
Communist Party's party spent a great
deal of time studying this question
and has taught all its cadre why the
Soviet Union fell they study the Soviet
collapse endlessly and Xi Jingping
the head of the party in China speaks
about this publicly so the communist
party cannot allow alternatives to its
power because otherwise that makes the
party obsolete and begins the process of
dissolution what you see however you see
them indulge market economics rosy and
retain centralized political power but
indulge the market because they need the
economic growth they need to benefit
from the rising standard of living and
everything else however when the market
grows it becomes a threat to the Chinese
Communist Party because people have
their own wealth their own sources of
power their own sense of Independence
and they begin to talk about politics as
if they have the right to do so as if
it's not the Communist Party's monopoly
so the party indulges it allows markets
to expand and then it clamps down on the
market it still wants the growth but
it's afraid of the political
consequences of the growth of people's
independence autonomy power wealth in
other words all the things that we
support in our research at their
institution Stephen I want to go back
and and just highlight this point I can
remember asking you what you you've
devoted a major portion of your
professional life to mastering the
material in the Soviet archives and I
once asked you what's the big finding
when you study the Soviet archives
and you immediately replied they were
communists the notion that the Soviet
Union by the time of Brezhnev they
stopped believing it was just a great
power struggle they were imperialist
night and Stephen cotton said no they
were communists I don't know of any
honestly I don't know of anyone who
believes that the Communist Party in
China is serious about its communism
their imperious all that we used to hear
about the Soviet Union in the old days
and you say oh yeah they are they are
communists is that is that correct or do
you want to add some nuance you want to
qualify it in some ways you're right
Peter the secret of the Soviet archives
who set they were communists and so what
does this mean it has two dimensions one
dimension you could call the dogma or
the ideology the other dimension is the
organizational structure the Leninist
part and so you can watch the dogma
unravel
you can watch the ideology get chipped
away until everybody is a cynic rather
than a partial cynic or a minority
centered
however the Leninist party organisation
which means that there is no political
system of legitimate voting where
multiple parties and secret ballot
elections get to pete compete with
different programs
there's no peacefully leaving power when
the people vote you out of office
instead there is a permanently endowed
party rule which monopolizes not just
the political sphere but the public
sphere and imposes censorship on
everybody else so you can watch the
ideology erode and we've watched that in
China but the party somehow doesn't give
up its monopoly position above already
it begins to substitute in the ideology
Peter you begin to see the nationalist
story fail some of the vacuum
so that the parties ideology as it
recedes there's a new ideology Chinese
greatness Chinese history Chinese
civilization Chinese values under party
rule however once they give up the party
monopoly which is what happened in the
Soviet Union the whole thing unravels
like the house of cards that it is
however if the resolve is there with the
elite and the Nationalists card that
they play and using repression if all of
that works they can hold on to power
even with the erosion of the ideology so
we're talking about an organizational
phenomenon party appointments to all
major positions permission of the party
to invest in a large scale in something
or other party directives to state-owned
enterprises party directives to the
private economy and forcing private
entrepreneurs to join the party and be
subjected to party did things more
dictates of the banking system so that
the banking system doesn't invest where
it thinks capital can be most efficient
but where it thinks it can support the
rule of the party so this is what we've
seen in China the entire time even as
they have benefited from permitting
markets to expand and the private
economy to expand there has always been
a limit and I never expected the party
to liberalize there are some party
apparatchiks
who believe that liberalisation is
compatible with the survival of party
rule
those are your Gorbachev like people
right they think if you open up you
allow pluralism
first you are not just markets you'd
allow pluralism in the economy but
floral is imply that party rules
survives
we have no historical case where the
party opened up and communist party
monopoly survived this is what they've
gone to school with in cheating things
China and so I anticipate
not an opening but a cracked-out now
they still need the economic growth they
still need the benefits of the market
and so it's one of those yin-yang where
clamped down they open up they clamp
down they open up Stephens here China
present day this very moment China
during the corona virus crisis
here's Walter Russell Mead in The Wall
Street Journal on March 16th just a
couple weeks ago in an ironic twist an
epidemic that started in China may end
by increasing Beijing's international
reach the greatest impact of the
pandemic will come in less developed
countries aid donations plus propaganda
about the supposed superiority of
China's governance model will find
sympathetic ears in many countries China
will have opportunities to deepen
security economic and political
relationships with governments around
the world close quote and underneath
that in my to my way of reading that is
the following question two
extent does the Communist Party in China
remain loyal to the Communist dream of
it sounds crude but it is the Communist
dream worldwide revolution and to what
extent are they willing to supplant the
strictly speaking communist aim or goal
with a more limited Chinese imperial the
old historical aim of local hegemony
over to you again great question Peter
so China is the largest economy with
such an opaque political regime ever
they hide their policy process they hide
their motivations from their own people
and from the rest of the world what we
can deduce their exit their aims from
their actions
China's aims in order of importance to
their rulers are threefold the first and
most important by far is regime
preservation at any cost they will stop
at nothing to keep that regime involved
the second goal that we can reduce
deduce from their actions is the pursuit
of primacy in East Asia their own region
this includes the eviction of the u.s.
from its military bases in the first
island chain and even the weakening or
dissolution of US bilateral alliances in
East Asia the third aim is the build-out
of a brand Eurasia folding in Russia
folding in Iran and reorienting Europe
away from Atlantis ISM away from the
Atlantic and toward China a Eurasian
reorientation including of Germany away
from the Atlantic economy and the u.s.
Alliance this is a breathtaking grand
strategy it's not something abstract
like world revolution world domination
spreading Chinese civilization it's
concrete domination of their region East
Asia and domination of the Eurasian
landmass
the Chinese leaders are pursuing these
aims largely without overturning the
existing order they're doing it inside
the current order within using trade
using infrastructure using loans and aid
and diplomacy as well as us mistakes
this is something that we have to come
to grips with as a nation we've begun to
do so but there's a long way to go
Stephen back for a moment to the Soviet
Union I'm not I'm not sure this is a if
this isn't a valid question I can count
on you to let me know but it occurred to
me the Soviet the famines of the 1930s
the German invasion during the Second
World War we haven't experienced
anything like that of course thank
goodness but this coronavirus locked
isn't a national calamity two months ago
we had the strongest economy in by some
measures in several decades unemployment
particularly among African American
Hispanics the less-advantaged groups in
this country was at the lowest levels
ever recorded real income was beginning
to rise and today where we've locked
down the economy Goldman Sachs is
predicting this quarter the economy will
shrink at an annual rate of 24 percent
we haven't had anything like that since
the Great Depression in fact I'm not
sure we had anything quite as sharp a
drop is that since the Great in the
Great Depression so this is in its own
way a national calamity is there
anything from the Soviet experience
which you know so well that comes to
mind lessons to learn so you're right
this is very serious and moreover it's
potentially very long-term now once
again we're early and it's hard to make
predictions
there were people making predictions
yesterday and last week and two weeks
ago and a lot of those predictions are
worth noting today so I would be
cautious about predicting the future but
obviously this is a very serious
challenge and the challenge could get
significantly worse as well as
significantly better in a crisis what
you discover Peter is that you need two
things the first thing you need is
competent and compassionate leadership
what was interesting about the Soviet
Union was that it had competence but not
compassionate leadership it fought World
War two for example the greatest test
any society has ever faced the invasion
of the Nazi land army with its allies
3.3 million men on invasion day June
22nd 1941 it faced that
competent but not compassionate
leadership in the sense that the Soviets
did not value life
they could lose a million men here and a
million men there and it was just their
enslaved collective farmers of which
there were millions more whose lives
could be wasted by the regime in pursuit
of defense of the country the second
thing you need besides competent and
compassionate leadership it's social
solidarity and trust social solidarity
and Trust also is an interesting way to
look at the Soviet Union in World War
two because they had social solidarity
but they didn't have the trust mmm the
police the secret police were ubiquitous
the repression there was massive terror
all during the war and nonetheless the
society held together so the regime did
not collapse and the society did not
collapse they had a version but not the
version of what you need in a crisis now
if you look at overall world war two or
the Cold War and the struggle first
against Germany and Japan and then
against the Soviet Union you see that
democracies are better than totalitarian
regimes at mass mobilization of
resources because their leadership is
compassionate not just competent and
because their social solidarity is based
upon trust not coercion plus a sense of
nationalism what tragedy and so both the
UK and especially the u.s. were superior
at mass mobilization during the war and
during the Cold War after the hot war
against its authoritarian or
totalitarian adversaries
whether that's Nazi Germany and Japan
during the war or the Soviet Union
afterwards so this is a long game Peter
mm-hmm very long game and the advantages
are on the side of democracies that have
the compassion as well as the competence
and that have the trust as well as the
social solidarity however having said
that you don't win just because your
side has better tools potentially you
win because people step up the
leadership actually performs or
outperforms expectation the social
solidarity increases it strengthens
overtime you win because you earn it not
just because you're predestined with
superior tools at the beginning this is
the challenge for us we're not going to
win this battle unless we rise to the
occasion it's very very important to
understand that we have the attributes
that nobody else has the endowments and
the attributes but we can squander them
we can lose the battle because we're the
people who can defeat ourselves if we
have incompetent leadership if we have
non compassionate leadership if we lose
our social solid that
let's remember Peter how did we get to
the place we're in now
we got to the place we're in now
you could argue because of two very big
trends that are reinforcing one elites
were unaccountable they could do the
global financial crisis or they could do
monetary union in Europe and then we'd
be left with the consequences and they
would walk away and get promoted to yet
another better job with a higher on
speakers fee or a bigger book deal or
whatever it might be
the unaccountability of elites was
something the mass is perceived across
the globe in various elections in
different forms in different countries
including in ours that problem persists
the second reason we're in the situation
we're in is the fragmentation of society
your strength as a society is obviously
unity you want to have a sense of
collective purpose you want to be
Americans without hyphens you want all
citizens to be equal before the law and
part of the national community and part
of the collective endeavor we have
fragmented ourselves badly we fragmented
ourselves in parts socioeconomically
with the MAL distribution of opportunity
I'm not speaking of equality of outcome
I'm speaking of equality of opportunity
right now distribution of opportunity
but also we're the kind of identity
politics or a tribal politics which
forgets the e pluribus unum which
forgets the collective Enterprise the
unity of purpose the strength
so this unaccountability of elites and
social fragmentation has been deeply
debilitating to us and those are the
things that must be overcome because
that's what we need that now get
ourselves domestically out of this
crisis but also international Steven a
couple of sentences from your article
last summer
Foreign Affairs I'm quoting you the
trumpian moment is an opportunity the
best of the United States is there to be
rediscovered reinvented and repositioned
for the challenges the country faces if
properly understood Trump could be a
gift explained here it's very hard to
talk about the Trump presidency these
days in America as you know people are
reflexively anti Trump and passionately
so and then many other people are
reflexively pro-trump and passionately
so if you say anything about trumpet
that's perceived as the least criticism
49% of the country goes crazy if you say
anything about Trump that's potentially
praise the other 49% of the country goes
crazy so I tried in that article to talk
about America rather than this 49% or
that 49% and I tried to talk about the
Trump presidency not as something to
bash or to praise specifically but to
look at where we are how we got here and
where we could be going forward when we
talk about the Moller report which was
what that article was about we talked
about Russia's interference in our
elections we don't talk about our own
self created problems mm-hmm don't talk
about our own failings we talk about how
somebody else is causing our problems
somebody landed from the moon named
Trump and he's not he somehow surprising
everybody came out of nowhere and maybe
Russia put him there or whatever the
story might be so this is not a way of
examination this is not a serious
analysis of the trends in our country
and where we are and the opportunities
that are presented the Trump is a
transitional figure he put his finger on
the unaccountability of elites he did
that very successfully during the
campaign and he's a master political
manipulator of the societal
fragmentation that's part of the secret
of his political intuition so he is in
many ways showing us where we are mm-hmm
and so the answer is not an antidote to
him personally
the answer is moving away from the shiny
object moving away from the polarized
forty-nine percent against 49% and
reconstituting a sense of social unity
reconstituting a sense of how our
political system works it works from
compromise the way our founders set up
our political system was to make it
difficult to get anything done unless
people came together in the middle
there's separation of powers there are
all sorts of mechanisms to prevent
majorities from enacting a tyranny over
Bernard's cooperation coalition is
required to get things done enduringly
not to pass something with 50 plus 150
percent plus one vote in which the next
administration overturns with their 50%
plus one and so I see Trump as an
invitation for all of us to get back to
first principles to rediscover who we
are and why we are so successful and to
get that mojo back and not to fight this
battle endlessly as if it's World War
three as if it's the end of civilization
if one side wins or the other it's not
the end of civilization it's not World
War three
Stephen - to last left for you if I may
here's the first in the winter of 1946
right at the get-go of the Cold War
February 1946 you know of course what
I'm about to say diplomat George Kennan
sent what we now call the long telegram
from Moscow to Washington 5,000 words
it was a long telegram and in it Kanin
outlined the policy of containment which
would remain substantially the framework
for American foreign policy for the next
four and a half decades until the end of
the Cold War why haven't we had a long
telegram on China yet for that matter
why have we wasted a quarter of a
century supposing they were going to
become more democratic when Stephen
Kotkin knew from the get-go that would
never happen in part Peter it's because
China is not just a foe or an opponent
but is also a collaborator is also a
partner China's success has rebounded to
America success we have been better off
because of China's success
it has thrown off tremendous benefits
for the Chinese the hundreds of millions
lifted out of poverty but also all
around the world and so we don't want
Chinese success to stop we want to
figure out a better way to manage the
relationship we want to continue to
benefit from the relationship but not
have it be the one-sided relationship it
had become partly prior to President
Trump
changing the national conversation about
China and so the absence of the kenan is
in part because fundamental nature of
china is different from the soviet union
having said that what similar is a
potentially successful or perceived to
be successful
authoritarian great power that changes
the game international an authoritarian
power that's a basket case is not going
to galvanize a whole lot of others onto
its side or to imitate it or to do its
will but an authoritarian power that
projects its ability to lock down a
country and stop the spread of the virus
right to manufacture all the medical
equipment that the world needs and to
supply it on a voluntary philanthropic
basis to countries in need that kind of
power
authoritarian power that's the challenge
that we face now once again Chinese
scientists they may be the ones that
come up with the vaccine we may have a
race to the moon like we had with the
Soviets over the vaccine or other
aspects of the pandemic I welcome that
rivalry but I would prefer cooperation
it could be that a race with China for
the vaccine as well as Germany and Japan
and other tested countries of biological
science it could be that that
accelerates the process of discovering
the vaccine but cooperating with Chinese
scientists on the vaccine would be even
better potentially and so that's the
proposition where is their competition
and rivalry that requires a strong
response from America to defend freedom
and other first principles and where are
the areas of cooperation that require
not confrontation but in fact benefiting
from the incredible dynamism of Chinese
society and the human capital that they
have this is the heart of conversation
Peter we have had this conversation at
the margins it has been occluded by our
entertainer infotainment complex that we
all know what it is and some of us are
quite entertained by and on occasion
however it could well be that now many
of those recently written or written
some time ago analyses of how to both
compete and cooperate with China get a
second look and and we figure out what
we need to do the bottom line on all of
this is how do we protect liberty and
the rule of law at home and globally
here's the last question then Stephen
the Chinese vastly outnumber us their
economy may very soon be bigger than
ours they're spending on the military as
you often point out Russia and Iran
don't even come close in military
spending to what the Chinese are doing
and they possess a central government we
would not want to live under the central
government that they have but it can get
certain things done and all we have is a
two hundred and thirty year old
Constitution how optimistic are you
that's an excellent question and I'd I'd
have to say that I'm a pessimist by
Nature
the beauty of pessimism is that a you're
always right and B if by some freak of
nature you're wrong it's because
something good has happened however in
this particular case I don't think full
pessimism is called for China has a
fundamental vulnerabilities
and those fundamental vulnerabilities
involved mostly politics we understand
their banking system presents
fundamental challenges we understand
ecologically they face enormous
challenges demographically but I want to
talk in closing about the politics
and why our system has strengths that we
continually rediscover in the Chinese
case you can imagine it as six
vulnerabilities over time mm-hmm
Manchuria
inner mongolia shinjang and tibet are
four of them
those are all predominantly ethnic
challenges to the Chinese and they've
dealt with them first by over running
the areas which Han Chinese settlement
so that Manchuria is now predominantly
Han Chinese and has virtually
disappeared as a separate ethnic
territory Inner Mongolia overrun by
Chinese settlement Shin Jang where you
have a large Weger population has not
been all fully overrun in the same way
as Manchuria and Inner Mongolia and
today we have up to 2 million people in
Xinjiang in re-education camps
Tibet also is not as easy for chai Han
Chinese settlement because of the
altitude but nonetheless the challenges
that they represent Shin Jang and Tibet
are of a more limited quality however
tragic the from a humanitarian point of
view the other two pieces of the six are
Taiwan and Hong Kong and they are
political challenges they are an ethnic
Chinese political system that's
different from Communist Party rule and
the strength
and durability over time of Taiwan and
Hong Kong are the two most important
assets that we have on our site and that
are the greatest vulnerabilities the
Communist Chinese rule Hong Kong and
Taiwan represent our kind of systems
u.s. style systems where liberty and the
protection of property are higher values
than the preservation of a certain kind
of rule of the Communist Party we have
to remember this we have to remember
that China has those vulnerabilities and
they're right there at home
China has claimed reclaimed Hong Kong
from the British and they would like to
reclaim I want they claim it as their
territory but as we've seen they've had
a very difficult time assimilating Hong
Kong politically mm-hmm and this has
rebounded to sentiment Taiwan as well
and so let's not forget that as great as
China's story has been I'm a very big
admirer of the accomplishments of modern
China I'm awed by the dynamism and
intrapreneurial ISM of that society
it's amazing what they've been able to
achieve and without them we would have a
lot fewer medical supplies right now in
the crisis that were in
at the same time they're politically
vulnerable and we are potentially
politically strong if we can rediscover
what it is that made us the country that
we are Stephen kotkin of Princeton and
the Hoover Institution thank you
Stephen will now will you please get
away from your microphone and get back
to work on the third and final volume of
use of the Stalin trilogy I've done I
get it I get emails every week from
people when is dr. Kaka gonna finish
that trilogy you know nobody wants to
finish quicker than I do Peter
I've been living with this monster for a
long time Stephen Kotkin of Princeton
University and the Hoover Institution
thank you for uncommon knowledge the
Hoover Institution and Fox Nation
Peter Robinson
[Music]
you